# Importance of Learning Philosophy and Theories

As an engineer who was traditionally trained on the quantitative side of things with focus on data and software, I am relatively new to social sciences and philosophy. The introduction to social science has opened new ways of thinking. At the same time, I struggle with understanding the conventional ways of qualitative research, especially in Learning Technologies.

The first semester introduced me to learning theories. Initially I did not appreciate how these are relevant to today's challenges. I was also surprised by how these theories survived without enough criticism. 
After reading some papers that used qualitative research, I thought the evidence (as you would expect from a rationalist point of view, something that I knew but had a refresher in this course) was not of acceptable quality. 
At the same time, as I got to know the field, I realized they were facing considerable challenges with collecting data from people. 
As I looked into survey methods, I realized there are a lot of aspects that I need to learn. 
So in a way, the conventional acceptable methods in social sciences are not entirely convincing to me, but I could see why they are necessary. 
I could also see why it's important to understand the philosophy of social sciences. 
However, the terminology was not always clear, and I was not able to grasp the value of digging deep into some of those concepts. But as I studied those terms, it started making sense. 
It became clear to me that philosophy sits at the top of the pyramid of learning.
I developed a knowledge definition which focuses on purpose and ethics as the key drivers.

Some of the texts and videos that have been shared in this course have allowed me to get a better grasp of the relative importance of learning technology. Philosophy and psychological theories are important in understanding how I use that to examine learning theories, pedagogical approaches, organizational structures, and apply them to technical implementations. It is interesting to know that many of the technical systems that I've been using and creating are not that straightforward, and these learning theories and organizational structures can have a big impact. I can make it concrete by talking about user experience, which I've always thought to be an important aspect that many technical engineers and software people tend to ignore. In recent years, it has become increasingly important, but now I realize that philosophical theories and psychological aspects in learning theories all contribute to user experience. Instructional methods can utilize that knowledge to create something more human-centric, more friendly, and easier to use.

So to answer the reflection question for this assignment, I do feel a bit more immersed in these topics, but I also feel like I have much more work to do to improve. I'm still struggling with translating these concepts, terminology, and ideas into cohesive writing and creating arguments to make my points clearer, more logical, and more convincing. One thing I have noticed is that now I can read other texts and better see some of the missing evidence, some of the gaps, and some of the weaker arguments. But I still have more work to do in terms of creating higher quality writing. That is something I should allocate more time and effort to, and I should do more original writing. One way I might do that is by shifting to handwritten drafts instead of going straight to typing or getting AI help. I have found that it is easier to think more clearly when I'm writing by hand, so that will be my next approach as I work towards a doctorate program.
